All software, from the applications running on mobile phones
to the training of Machine learning models running in data centers, consume electricity.
One of the best ways to reduce electricity consumption and the subsequent carbon emissions from software
is to make applications more energy efficient.
Green software engineers should take responsibility for the energy consumed by their products
and design them to consume as little as possible.
We should make sure that, at every step in the process, there is as little waste as possible.
This means our goal is not simply to make the most energy efficient code or the “greenest” software,
but to think about the end user and how to make sure they are not creating unnecessary emissions.
This might mean batching jobs together to take advantage of energy proportionality
or changing how a user uses your software.
Let's explore some of these concepts and some ways that you can become more energy efficient at every stage of the chain,
right up to the final consumer.